you know the three-digit Airport
identifiers that show up on your baggage
and your boarding pass everyone where
they came from well I grew up in the
airline business my whole family was in
the industry to me
each codes a little bit of history so
for the next 300 seconds I'm going to
share with you some of those stories in
1903 there were no airports but it
wasn't long after the Wright brothers
first flight that commercial aviation
was born to this day the National Park
Service maintains a small airstrip at
the site of Kitty Hawk North Carolina
the city code FF a first flight airstrip
the International Air Transport
Association keeps track of the nearly
4,000 airports worldwide resolution 763
outlines the rules for location IDs and
the airline coding directory binds those
airports
the National Weather Service maintained
weather stations the sites of
present-day airports however they were
only two-digit designations so early on
airports just added an X to the back end
of existing designators that's how
Phoenix got PHX
the in line coding directory states that
when possible airports must use the
first few letters of the city name in
their code but due to restrictions
that's not as possible and when two
metropolitan areas are served by the
same airport both city names are
represented some letters are restricted
from use K and W are reserved for radio
stations is used by the Navy in zebra
Charlie x-ray is not even an airport at
all let's rather the command center
outside of Washington DC Canadiens
grabbed all the Y codes
if you know something you have the
geography the area city codes will start
to make sense
New Orleans code msy is from Moyes on
stockyards and we live in Cincinnati
your actual landing across the Ohio
River in Covington Kentucky not even in
Ohio at all with the Navy hogging up all
the in designators cities that begin
with the letter in have to get creative
in their names just drop the letter in
and use the next three letters and you
can understand why Newark New Jersey is
ewr
the 200-mile rule says that when you
have two airports in close proximity you
can only share a single character
therefore the original airport in
Houston is Hou and the newer airport
called Intercontinental is known as iah
similar idea in DC where DC a is the
District of Columbia Airport and the
newer Dulles International Airport was
going to be dia sort of avoid confusion
we fled dia around and we get Dulles
current city code of IAD the rock band
rushes from Toronto Canada they do a
tribute to their hometown it starts like
this don don don don don don that's the
VOR the airport broadcasting in morse
code
the letters YYZ the city code for
toronto in the 50s Kansas City built Mid
Continent International later they
change their minds because MCI didn't
identify with Kansas City so they tried
to change a code to MKC unfortunately it
already been published on navigational
charts so they were stuck with MCI its
popular user names of military pilots
someone who crashed at present-day
airports Colonel Michael McCoy crashed a
b-47 outside of Orlando Florida
heroically avoiding the population below
and now the city code for Lando's MCO
the form of Idlewild Airport in New York
IDL was named after a golf course in
unusual example of airport changing city
codes IDL changes code to JFK on
December 24th 1963 after President
Kennedy's assassination the city code
for Sioux City Iowa is su X in the
1980's the mayor and the airport
official thought this was an
embarrassment to the city and made
petition IATA
for a new city code however the
substitute codes that IATA offered we're
also not acceptable airport management
had a perception problem on our hands
so all marketing your PR people write
what a good marketing people do when
they have an image problem they try to
monetize a unique opportunity basically
they make lemonade out lemons
here are some of the various items
available for sale like gift shops of
Sioux City Airport and that's what I
call playing the hand you're dealt
here are some more humorous codes if
you're looking for a dog you have to go
to Sudan if you're looking for a cat you
go to the Bahamas and everyone knows if
you're looking for pot you'll have to go
to Jamaica Mon
this is butch O'Hare whoo Chicago's
O'Hare Airport named after the city code
Oh Rd is not abbreviation of Butch's
name instead it's after the community of
orchard Place Douglas field orchard
field was a place in the nineteen
forties with a military housed
experimental and captured enemy aircraft
open next time you fly we'll take a
second look at the bag tag where are you
from what's the history of the airport
you call home let me know or better yet
I hope you'll reach out to me and we'll
find out together thank you for your
time